cncf: self-assessment doc (#6459)
containers/buildah: docs/cncf/self-assessment.md

### Background

Buildah is a command-line tool designed for building OCI-compliant container images. Unlike traditional container build tools that require a daemon, Buildah operates directly as a command-line application, providing better security and flexibility.

Key characteristics:

- **Daemonless**: No background daemon process required for building images
- **Rootless builds**: Supports building images without root privileges
- **OCI-compliant**: Fully compliant with OCI image specifications
- **Dockerfile compatibility**: Can build images from Dockerfiles/Containerfiles
- **Fine-grained control**: Provides detailed control over the build process
- **Integration**: Works seamlessly with Podman, Skopeo, and other container tools

Buildah is part of the containers ecosystem and integrates with other tools like Podman, Skopeo, and CRI-O.

### Actors

* **Buildah CLI**: The main command-line interface that users interact with for building container images.

> * **Build context**: The filesystem context containing source code and build instructions.

Reviewer: This point is not very clear to me, I wonder if build context should be part of `actors` or not. @nalind WDYT

Author: removed in latest. PTAL.

* **Image store**: Manages container images and their layers during the build process.

* **Registry client**: Handles interactions with container registries for pulling base images and pushing built images.

* **Storage backend**: Manages container storage layers and filesystems during the build process.

### Actions

* **Image building**:

  - Parses Dockerfile/Containerfile or receives direct build commands
  - Pulls base images from container registries
  - Executes build steps in isolated environments
  - Creates image layers and metadata
  - Applies security policies during build

* **Container creation**:

  - Creates working containers for build operations
  - Sets up namespaces and cgroups for isolation
  - Configures security policies for build containers

* **Layer management**:

  - Creates and manages image layers
  - Optimizes layer size and composition
  - Handles layer caching for efficiency

* **Image inspection**:

  - Provides detailed information about images
  - Verifies image metadata and configuration
  - Checks security attributes

* **Image publishing**:

>   - Pushes built images to registries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Allows users to push built images to registries
```

## Overview

Buildah is a tool that facilitates building Open Container Initiative (OCI) images. It provides a flexible and efficient way to create container images without requiring a running container daemon, emphasizing security through rootless builds and fine-grained control over the image creation process.

### Background

Buildah is a command-line tool designed for building OCI-compliant container images. Unlike traditional container build tools that require a daemon, Buildah operates directly as a command-line application, providing better security and flexibility.

Key characteristics:

- **Daemonless**: No background daemon process required for building images
- **Rootless builds**: Supports building images without root privileges
- **OCI-compliant**: Fully compliant with OCI image specifications
- **Dockerfile compatibility**: Can build images from Dockerfiles/Containerfiles
- **Fine-grained control**: Provides detailed control over the build process
- **Integration**: Works seamlessly with Podman, Skopeo, and other container tools

> Buildah is part of the containers ecosystem maintained by Red Hat and the open-source community.

Reviewer 2: In Podman, you say:

Podman is part of the containers ecosystem and integrates with other tools like Buildah, Skopeo, and CRI-O.

I think I'd do the same, but just change the location of Podman and Buildah in this line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Buildah is part of the containers ecosystem and integrates with other tools like Podman, Skopeo, and CRI-O.
```
